+++

title = "SpaceX's Journey to Mars: 2018"

date = "2016-06-12"

categories = ["writing"]

slug = "spacex-journey-to-mars-2018"

tags = [
     "spacex",
     "spacex-red-dragon",
     "spacex-falcon-heavy"
     ]

[hero]
background = "/article/spacex-journey-to-mars-2018/media/mars-approach.jpg"

+++

It's mid-April 2018, and SpaceX is getting ready to launch a
[Falcon Heavy](/tags/spacex-falcon-heavy), the world's most powerful
rocket since [Energia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energia). This
time, though, its payload isn't another communications or
reconnaissance satellite; instead, SpaceX is preparing to launch their
first unmanned mission to Mars: the Red Dragon.

<!--more-->

{{< img
class="right"
src="/article/spacex-journey-to-mars-2018/media/fh.jpg"
caption="The SpaceX Falcon Heavy carries the unmanned Red Dragon capsule to Mars."
attr="SpaceX"
attrlink="https://www.flickr.com/photos/spacex/26405463180/"
>}}

SpaceX has made no secret of their Mars ambitions. Elon Musk has been
talking about building a Mars rocket for over well a decade now, and
their preliminary design will finally be unveiled to the public in
September 2016. The SpaceX Mars Colonial Transporter will be capable
of carrying one hundred tons of cargo (or one hundred passengers) to
the Martian surface, then returning back to Earth to be reused. It
will be by far the largest rocket ever built.

And the clock is ticking. Elon Musk says he wants to have footsteps on
Mars by the end of 2025; there are only four Mars transfer
opportunities before then. SpaceX will have to validate many facets of
the Mars Colonial Transporter before it can even be built, let alone
fly to Mars; this includes everything from life support, plumbing, and
engines to "how do we even land a 500-ton vehicle on Mars?"

That's where Red Dragon comes in. The Crew Dragon, from which Red
Dragon is derived from, is a capsule designed to shuttle seven
astronauts to the International Space Station. It's pretty typical, as
spacecraft go; it has a docking port on top, a disposable, detachable
trunk for generating electricity and keeping the vehicle cool, and a
heatshield on the bottom for reentry. One feature unique to Crew
Dragon, though, is its integrated liquid-fuel launch abort
system. Crew Dragon has eight SuperDraco engines built-in; these burn
the same fuel as the Draco maneuvering thrusters. In the case of a
launch vehicle failure, the eight SuperDraco engines will instantly
start up and pull the Crew Dragon away from the debris.

{{< img
class="left"
src="/article/spacex-journey-to-mars-2018/media/dragon-abort.jpg"
caption="Photo taken during the Crew Dragon pad abort test."
attr="SpaceX"
attrlink="http://www.spacex.com/news/2015/05/06/crew-dragon-completes-pad-abort-test"
>}}

The SuperDraco engines also have another use: propulsive landing. Ever
since the inception of sci-fi, alien spaceships landed
vertically. They didn't need wings or parachutes; they touched down
softly on Earth, under the power of their own engines. Just like the
alien spaceships of sci-fi, the Crew Dragon capsule can land on Earth
under the power of its eight SuperDraco engines.

Propulsive landing will work on Mars, too. SpaceX is planning to land
the Red Dragon on Mars as a test of their software and hardware, and
as a precursor to the MCT design.

Before the first part of Crew Dragon was designed, the SpaceX
engineers wanted the Crew Dragon to be capable of landing on Mars with
minimal modifications. That's why Red Dragon won't need any extra fuel
tanks or boosters to land on Mars; Crew Dragon was already designed
with Mars in mind.

The rest of the Red Dragon capsule is essentially a stripped-down Crew
Dragon. The trunk section doesn’t have the fins anymore (they're only
used during a launch abort, which would be pretty pointless if the
capsule is unmanned), and the life support and display panels aren’t
present. The Red Dragon weighs less than half of what the Crew Dragon
weighs. It needs to be very light if it has any hope to be deployed on
the high-energy trajectory that will bring it to Mars.

Onboard the Red Dragon, there may be some scientific equipment and
possibly some hardware for validating fuel synthesis on Mars; but the
mission is primarily to test the software and hardware for landing the
Red Dragon itself. (Future missions, in 2020 and 2022, will probably
carry more scientific equipment.)

{{< img
class="small"
src="/article/spacex-journey-to-mars-2018/media/dragon-trunk-deploy.jpg"
caption="The Red Dragon capsule prepares for atmospheric entry."
>}}

The Falcon Heavy will launch in late April, 2018; 9 months later, in
January of 2019, the Red Dragon capsule will approach Mars. A few
hours before it reaches Mars, the trunk is ejected from the capsule;
it isn’t capable of tagging along during atmospheric entry and
landing. The Red Dragon capsule will be traveling very quickly and
will have to enter the atmosphere directly, without slowing down. Its
PICA-3 heatshield is ablative, and will burn off to keep temperatures
down; the Crew Dragon has enough PICA-3 for ten Earth reentries. One
Mars reentry, even at interplanetary velocities, isn’t a problem.

Then, after the capsule passes through peak heating and begins to cool
down and drop through the thin atmosphere towards the surface, it must
perform its most difficult task yet: landing vertically, on Mars,
under its own engine power, exactly like the alien spaceship it is.

{{< img
class="full-bleed"
src="/article/spacex-journey-to-mars-2018/media/dragon-landing.jpg"
caption="The Red Dragon capsule lands on Mars."
>}}

Welcome to the future.

*Join [r/SpaceX](https://reddit.com/r/SpaceX) for detailed technical
 discussions on SpaceX and their upcoming Red Dragon mission.*
