
+++
title = "The Last Hohmann Transfer"

draft = true

date = "2018-03-29"

categories = ["writing"]

tags = [
     "fiction",
     "science-fiction",
     "lancelot-defense-systems",
     "isaac-hawkins"
     ]

[hero]
#background = "/hero/infographics.jpg"

+++

"Good morning, Dr. Isaac Hawkins. Welcome to Lancelot Defense Systems, Marin
facility. The outside temperature is 12 degrees; wind speed 3 knots; overcast.
Your group is currently performing above average. You are fourteen minutes
early."

A slight pause.

"You have been assigned today to preÃ«mptive maintenance in level A-14, chamber
three. Maintenance is on power controller numbers one and two. You are
occupant number one in this elevator. This elevator will bring you to level
A-14, exit one-three."

The elevator silently picked up speed, dropping deep into the artificial
island a few dozen miles off the coast of Marin for public safety. Not that
the distance would actually help, given the energy levels contained within the
antimatter chambers.

"You seem to be under some amount of stress. Would you like to schedule an
appointment with one of our psychiatrists?"

I shake my head in the negative.

The elevator glides to a stop and dings as the doors slide open. I walk out
into the concrete corridor, following the signs for the third chamber. It's a
bit of a walk around the central chamber that contains the gigawatt nuclear
fusion reactor; a walk I take twice a day. The elevator doesn't get me all the
way; for safety reasons, there are only three elevator doors on each A-class
level, and they're placed evenly between the chamber doors.

The shiny vinyl floor gives a bit as I step along it, the ever-vigilant
cameras categorizing my every move. I live on the surface of the island, in a
concrete bunker that's been shoddily painted and clad with aluminum panels
designed to resemble the typical housing of the Bay Area. Despite the
proximity, I like to be early in case of any delays along the way. The
elevators are busy for quite a while every time the shifts change.

There are defense systems integrated into the walls, next to the cameras. The
Pentagon has granted Lancelot Defense Systems a practically unlimited sum of
money to further develop antimatter creation, containment, and weapons
systems. The work we're doing here is beyond top-secret; the information we
have would make it possible for nearly any country of any size to create and
refine antimatter. Our job is to make sure we have even better technology, if
and when the information here gets out.

I nod and turn the corner to the bright alcove containing the entrance to
Chamber 3. I silently place my palm against the biometric sensor; I feel a
thousand pricks of heat as cores of my hand, a few atoms thick, are pulled out
for DNA evaulation; they check for any health issues (no sneezing in the
antimatter chambers), DNA, body heat, and a thousand other things that ensure
the hand on the sensor is my own living hand.

"Your biometrics have been accepted, Dr. Isaac Hawkins. Unlocking outer door."

There's a sharp click-click-click of the three independent locking systems
pulling back the deadbolts, the door ponderously swinging open. I step into
the hermetically sealed chamber and pull out my hand again for a second
biometrics check. The wall slides open and to the side, revealing the vacuum
suit. The suit, a smooth white mechanical counterpressure suit, is pushed out
of the recess with steel rods. The suit has been cleaned of all contaminants
while it was in the wall, but as soon as I'm sealed up and the airlock vented,
the suit will be re-cleaned by the airlock before I'm permitted into the
chamber proper.

I zip up the legs of the suit. It's a difficult task; the design of the suit
means it pulls tight against me, making the seal hard to slide for the last
few centimeters. It snaps shut and I hear a tone indicating a positive seal on
the suit entrance. I pull the helmet off of the stand, feeling my gloved hands
analyzing the rim, grabbing onto it more securely than a human ever could. I
spin it around and lower it onto my head, pushing it down hard until I hear
another tone and then a slight hiss as the backpack pressurizes the helmet to
full operating pressure. Due to the nature of the chambers, the suit is
designed to operate untethered for days at a time. It's powered by a few
picograms of antimatter, stored near the base of my neck. The thinking was
that the best place to put it was near a part of the human body that you'd
protect instinctively.

The heads-up display on the helmet flickers, then runs through its power-up
sequence, briefly overwhelming my eyes with the brilliant light from the laser
projectors. "Welcome, Dr. Isaac Hawkins," says the suit. "Airlock will be at
an acceptable vacuum in twelve minutes. Local pressure at 0.3% of surface."

He twiddled his thumbs as the airlock pumps kicked in and the last dregs of
air were forcibly removed from the confined area. The spacesuit itself was
only a few weeks old; it was a new prototype from the Advanced Microtechnology
Group in the Marin facility. It would theoretically support a human for
several years before it needed to be refilled with antimatter.

"Air pressure at nominal chamber level. Unlocking inner door. Prepare for
maintenance."

The inner door popped open with a noticeable sound. My suit constantly scanned
the outside environment, creating a 3D representation accurate to the
millimeter. The suit itself synthesized the vibrations of the environment and
reproduced them as sound in his helmet.
