
+++
title = "Vignettes at Sanctuary Port"

draft = true

date = "2019-01-28"

categories = ["writing"]

story = true

tags = [
     "fiction",
     "science-fiction",
     "sanctuary-port",
     "reports-from-the-orion-arm"
     ]

[hero]
background = "none"
compressed = true

+++

If you're beyond the edge of Sanctuary proper, the sky is pitch-black at
night. There's no artificial light anywhere on the planet apart from the
buildings at Sanctuary and a few outposts, which you'll find here and there.
It's a pretty barren planet, and it's never more obvious than at one of the
abandoned pads at the spaceport. This far from the galaxy's plane, the stars
aren't even out for half the year.

The steel lattice rattles under my feet as I walk around the perimeter of the
landing pad on patched-up catwalks. Even ten meters above the bay, I can hear
the waves striking the concrete piers and feel the the misty spray of water on
my face. I can see the line of light along the bay, a beam of light shining at
the glow of the city.

There's a marker light housing to my right, embedded into the steel plating of
the pad. These pads were installed a few decades ago when the spaceport was
being constructed, back when the council was overly ambitious and
overestimated the capacity of the spaceport. This landing pad is one of the
last remaining vestiges of that hopeful time.

The light is a smooth sphere of sapphire glass the size of a small cab, the
element inside long burnt out and leaving behind sooty streaks on the inside
of the glass. I run my hand along the glass as I pass, feeling the smooth
coolness of the material. Those things are worth a fortune, even in their
current condition. A shame they're so tough to remove safely.

After a full revolution on the catwalk, I pull myself into the maintenance
shaft and climb down the aluminum ladder to the bunker room. From there, it's
a straight run to the city through the neglected transport tunnel. Ten years
ago, this tunnel would be zipping with cabs, full of VIPs who'd booked a ship
straight out of the system. Now, it was a dark concrete tunnel. Perfect for
me.