content/infographic/trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-rtls.md, before:

+++
title = "SpaceX Falcon 9 Return to Launch Site"
author = "Jon Ross"

#categories = ["infographic"]

date = "2016-06-16"

tags = [
     "trajectory",
     "rtls",
     
     "spacex",
     "spacex-falcon9",
     "spacex-falcon9-stage-one",
     
     "boostback-burn",
     "edl",
     "land-landing"
     ]

[infographic]
category = "SpaceX Falcon 9"
name = "Return to Launch Site"

aspect = "wide"
file = "trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-rtls"
+++

This is the approximate trajectory of the
[SpaceX Falcon 9](/tags/spacex-falcon9) booster during a "return to
launch site" landing (i.e. landing on land).

<!--more-->

1. The Falcon 9 launches, as normal.
2. After stage separation, the second stage engine ignites to continue
   its trip into orbit. The booster stage flips around using its
   [RCS thrusters]({{< ref "term/rcs.md" >}}) and deploys its
   [grid fins]({{< ref "term/grid-fins.md" >}}).
3. The Falcon 9 booster performs a long [boostback burn]({{< ref "term/boostback-burn.md" >}}), bringing its
   [IIP]({{< ref "term/iip.md" >}}) to the vicinity of the launch site.
4. At about 70km in altitude, the booster ignites three of its nine
   engines for its [entry burn]({{< ref "term/entry-burn.md" >}}). The
   entry burn ends at about 40km. The entry burn slows down the
   booster to prevent aerodynamic damage as it begins to pass through
   the atmosphere.
5. The grid fins constantly control the trajectory of the booster,
   directing it towards the landing pad.
6. At about 8km in altitude, the landing burn begins. So far, every
   RTLS landing has used only a single engine.
7. Seconds before touchdown, the four landing legs deploy.
8. The booster touches down on land; the RCS thrusters at the top of
   the booster help stabilize the vehicle. Soon afterwards, unused
   [LOx]({{< ref "term/propellant/lox.md" >}}) is vented; the
   [RP-1 (kerosene)]({{< ref "term/propellant/rp-1.md" >}}) propellant
   remains in the tank.

Commit message:

added Flight Club links (sorry Declan!)

content/infographic/trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-rtls.md, after:

+++
title = "SpaceX Falcon 9 Return to Launch Site"
author = "Jon Ross"

#categories = ["infographic"]

date = "2016-06-16"

tags = [
     "trajectory",
     "rtls",
     
     "spacex",
     "spacex-falcon9",
     "spacex-falcon9-stage-one",
     
     "boostback-burn",
     "edl",
     "land-landing",

     "flight-club"
]

[infographic]
category = "SpaceX Falcon 9"
name = "Return to Launch Site"

aspect = "wide"
file = "trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-rtls"

flightclub = "https://www.flightclub.io/results/?id=5bd19fe9-17ab-415d-92b6-13f8a296d018&code=OG22"
+++

This is the approximate trajectory of the
[SpaceX Falcon 9](/tags/spacex-falcon9) booster during a "return to
launch site" landing (i.e. landing on land).

<!--more-->

1. The Falcon 9 launches, as normal.
2. After stage separation, the second stage engine ignites to continue
   its trip into orbit. The booster stage flips around using its
   [RCS thrusters]({{< ref "term/rcs.md" >}}) and deploys its
   [grid fins]({{< ref "term/grid-fins.md" >}}).
3. The Falcon 9 booster performs a long [boostback burn]({{< ref "term/boostback-burn.md" >}}), bringing its
   [IIP]({{< ref "term/iip.md" >}}) to the vicinity of the launch site.
4. At about 70km in altitude, the booster ignites three of its nine
   engines for its [entry burn]({{< ref "term/entry-burn.md" >}}). The
   entry burn ends at about 40km. The entry burn slows down the
   booster to prevent aerodynamic damage as it begins to pass through
   the atmosphere.
5. The grid fins constantly control the trajectory of the booster,
   directing it towards the landing pad.
6. At about 8km in altitude, the landing burn begins. So far, every
   RTLS landing has used only a single engine.
7. Seconds before touchdown, the four landing legs deploy.
8. The booster touches down on land; the RCS thrusters at the top of
   the booster help stabilize the vehicle. Soon afterwards, unused
   [LOx]({{< ref "term/propellant/lox.md" >}}) is vented; the
   [RP-1 (kerosene)]({{< ref "term/propellant/rp-1.md" >}}) propellant
   remains in the tank.

# Sources

The trajectory of the SpaceX Falcon 9 booster in this infographic is
based on [Flight Club's](https://flightclub.io/) recreation of the
[Orbcomm OG2 Mission 2 launch trajectory](https://www.flightclub.io/results/?id=5bd19fe9-17ab-415d-92b6-13f8a296d018&code=OG22).

Check Flight Club out at their [website](https://flightclub.io/) and on [twitter](https://twitter.com/flightclubio)!
