content/infographic/trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-dpl.md, before:

+++
title = "SpaceX Falcon 9 Downrange Propulsive Landing"
author = "Jon Ross"

#categories = ["infographic"]

date = "2016-05-03"

tags = [
     "trajectory",
     
     "spacex",
     "spacex-falcon9",
     "spacex-falcon9-stage-one",
     "spacex-asds",
     
     "launch",
     "boostback-burn",
     "edl",
     "ocean-landing",
     ]

[infographic]
category = "SpaceX Falcon 9"
name = "Downrange Propulsive Landing"

aspect = "wide"
file = "trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-dpl"
+++

This is the approximate trajectory of the
[SpaceX Falcon 9](/tags/spacex-falcon9) booster during a downrange
propulsive landing (i.e. ocean landing) on the
[ASDS](/tags/spacex-asds).

Note that this profile includes a
[boostback burn]({{< ref "term/boostback-burn.md" >}}); this profile was used during
the launch of CRS-8, among others. It's not used with heavy payloads,
such as some of the larger GTO missions; instead, the booster does not
perform a boostback burn and ends up much farther downrange, requiring
the ASDS to position itself much farther from shore. The approximate
trajectory of a Falcon 9 landing without a boostback burn [can be seen
here]({{< ref "infographic/trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-dpl-no-boostback.md" >}}).

<!--more-->

1. The Falcon 9 launches, as normal.
2. After stage separation, the second stage engine ignites to continue
   its trip into orbit. The booster stage flips around using its
   [RCS thrusters]({{< ref "term/rcs.md" >}}) and deploys its [grid fins]({{< ref "term/grid-fins.md" >}}).
3. The Falcon 9 booster performs a short boostback burn. Unlike the
   profile of
   [RTLS missions](/infographic/spacex-falcon9-booster-rtls), the
   boostback burn only shortens the downrange distance; the
   [IIP]({{< ref "term/tmi.md" >}}) is still in the ocean.
4. At about 70km in altitude, the booster ignites three of its nine
   engines for its [entry burn]({{< ref "term/entry-burn.md" >}}). The
   entry burn ends at about 40km. The entry burn slows down the
   booster to prevent aerodynamic damage as it begins to pass through
   the atmosphere.
5. The grid fins constantly control the trajectory of the booster,
   directing it towards the ASDS.
6. At about 8km in altitude, the landing burn begins. On most
   missions, this is done with only the center engine; however, on
   some missions, three engines are used instead. Three-engine landing
   burns use less fuel but are also more risky; however, they allow
   the booster to provide more velocity to the payload than a
   single-engine landing burn.
7. Seconds before touchdown, the four landing legs deploy.
8. The booster touches down on the ASDS; the RCS thrusters at the top
   of the booster help stabilize the vehicle. Soon afterwards, unused
   [LOx]({{< ref "term/propellant/lox.md" >}}) is vented; the [RP-1 (kerosene)]({{< ref
   "term/propellant/rp-1.md" >}}) propellant remains in the tank.

Commit message:

added Flight Club links (sorry Declan!)

content/infographic/trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-dpl.md, after:

+++
title = "SpaceX Falcon 9 Downrange Propulsive Landing"
author = "Jon Ross"

#categories = ["infographic"]

date = "2016-05-03"

tags = [
     "trajectory",
     
     "spacex",
     "spacex-falcon9",
     "spacex-falcon9-stage-one",
     "spacex-asds",
     
     "launch",
     "boostback-burn",
     "edl",
     "ocean-landing",

     "flight-club"
]

[infographic]
category = "SpaceX Falcon 9"
name = "Downrange Propulsive Landing"

aspect = "wide"
file = "trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-dpl"
flightclub = "https://www.flightclub.io/results/?id=9a732c8c-06df-4996-88bc-e3632c02b3c1&code=CRS8"
+++

This is the approximate trajectory of the
[SpaceX Falcon 9](/tags/spacex-falcon9) booster during a downrange
propulsive landing (i.e. ocean landing) on the
[ASDS](/tags/spacex-asds).

Note that this profile includes a
[boostback burn]({{< ref "term/boostback-burn.md" >}}); this profile was used during
the launch of CRS-8, among others. It's not used with heavy payloads,
such as some of the larger GTO missions; instead, the booster does not
perform a boostback burn and ends up much farther downrange, requiring
the ASDS to position itself much farther from shore. The approximate
trajectory of a Falcon 9 landing without a boostback burn [can be seen
here]({{< ref "infographic/trajectory/spacex-falcon9-booster-dpl-no-boostback.md" >}}).

<!--more-->

1. The Falcon 9 launches, as normal.
2. After stage separation, the second stage engine ignites to continue
   its trip into orbit. The booster stage flips around using its
   [RCS thrusters]({{< ref "term/rcs.md" >}}) and deploys its [grid fins]({{< ref "term/grid-fins.md" >}}).
3. The Falcon 9 booster performs a short boostback burn. Unlike the
   profile of
   [RTLS missions](/infographic/spacex-falcon9-booster-rtls), the
   boostback burn only shortens the downrange distance; the
   [IIP]({{< ref "term/tmi.md" >}}) is still in the ocean.
4. At about 70km in altitude, the booster ignites three of its nine
   engines for its [entry burn]({{< ref "term/entry-burn.md" >}}). The
   entry burn ends at about 40km. The entry burn slows down the
   booster to prevent aerodynamic damage as it begins to pass through
   the atmosphere.
5. The grid fins constantly control the trajectory of the booster,
   directing it towards the ASDS.
6. At about 8km in altitude, the landing burn begins. On most
   missions, this is done with only the center engine; however, on
   some missions, three engines are used instead. Three-engine landing
   burns use less fuel but are also more risky; however, they allow
   the booster to provide more velocity to the payload than a
   single-engine landing burn.
7. Seconds before touchdown, the four landing legs deploy.
8. The booster touches down on the ASDS; the RCS thrusters at the top
   of the booster help stabilize the vehicle. Soon afterwards, unused
   [LOx]({{< ref "term/propellant/lox.md" >}}) is vented; the [RP-1 (kerosene)]({{< ref
   "term/propellant/rp-1.md" >}}) propellant remains in the tank.

# Sources

The trajectory of the SpaceX Falcon 9 booster in this infographic is
based on [Flight Club's](https://flightclub.io/) recreation of the
[CRS-8 launch trajectory](https://www.flightclub.io/results/?id=9a732c8c-06df-4996-88bc-e3632c02b3c1&code=CRS8).

Check Flight Club out at their [website](https://flightclub.io/) and on [twitter](https://twitter.com/flightclubio)!
