content/art/spacex-its-tmi-burn.md, before:

+++
title = "Heart of Gold performs its Trans-Mars Injection burn"

date = "2017-04-26"

categories = ["3d", "art"]

tags = [
     "spacex",
     "spacex-its",
     "spacex-its-mars-lander",
     "spacex-heart-of-gold",
     
     "earth",
     
     "blender"
     ]

[art]
image = "spacex-its-tmi-burn"
redbubble = "https://www.redbubble.com/people/zlsa/works/23707636-spacex-red-dragon-at-mars"

+++

This piece shows the
[SpaceX Interplanetary Transportation System](/tags/spacex-its) Mars
lander performing the [trans-Mars injection burn]({{< ref
"term/tmi.md" >}}) that marks the beginning of its coast to Mars.

<!--more-->

# Background

*__Note:__ As this is depicting a future mission, the information here
is speculative and is in no way intended to be accurate. It simply
provides the story behind the image.*

This is showing the third flight of the _Heart of Gold_, or `S2004`:
Mars spacecraft, serial number 4. (Serials 1 through 3 were
engineering articles, and of those, only `S2003` flew into orbit.) The
_Heart of Gold_ has been refueled five times by `T2002`, the second
tanker ever built (the first one, being the first ever upper stage for
the ITS, was used as an engineering testbed) over a span of one and a
half weeks. The _Heart of Gold_, loaded with over 220 metric tons of
cargo, will land at Arcadia Planitia at an elevation of 2 kilometers
below Mars' "mean sea level."

Immediately after the TMI burn is complete, the spacecraft will
reorient itself to point away from the sun; then, it will use its 37
RCS thrusters to perform minor course corrections before shutting down
most of its systems to reduce energy consumption. It stores the
cryogenic propellants necessary to land on Mars in two insulated
holding tanks.

The _Heart of Gold_'s 220 metric tons of cargo contains an ISRU plant,
about 1.5 metric tons of science experiments, and over 140 metric tons
of lightweight, flexible solar panels. These will be unrolled by
car-sized crawler robots and connected to the _Heart of Gold_,
allowing it to begin producing liquid oxygen and liquid methane in
preparation for the first crewed ship, due to arrive in about two
years.

## History of `S2004`

`S2004`, aka _Heart of Gold_, is the fourth Mars spacecraft built by
SpaceX. `S2001` was a structural test article, and `S2002` and `S2003`
tested the life support, power, and propulsion systems. `S2002` was a
ground-based testbed, and it only flew three flights, with a maximum
altitude of 33km. `S2003` was the first spacecraft to fly into
low-Earth orbit, and it did so three times before being retired.

`S2004` made its first uncrewed flight to LEO in early 2028, circling
the earth for three days and testing every major system before
returning to Earth. Three weeks later, it performed its first crewed
launch to LEO, this time remaining in orbit for two weeks. During this
time, the crew of the newly christened _Heart of Gold_ performed
multiple EVAs with both SpaceX's zero-G EVA suit as well as the Mars
surface suit. At the end of its mission, the _Heart of Gold_ returned
to Earth; over the next two months, every part of it was carefully
inspected to make sure it was ready for the trip to Mars.

On December 24, 2028, the Mars-bound _Heart of Gold_ was launched into
a parking orbit. Over the next one and a half weeks, the same
propellant tanker flies into orbit five times and transfers its
propellant to the _Heart of Gold_, preparing it for the
energy-intensive TMI burn. On January 2, 2029, with full propellant
tanks and every system performing nominally, the _Heart of Gold_
starts up its six vacuum Raptor engines to begin the TMI burn that
sends it on its 4-month trip to Mars.

---

Two years later arriving on `S2005`, the first human sets foot on Mars
in humanity's next giant leap into the unknown.

# Credits

Background image courtesy of the Earth Science and Remote Sensing
Unit, NASA Johnson Space
Center. [Direct link to the image](https://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/SearchPhotos/photo.pl?mission=ISS049&roll=E&frame=1249)

The location shown is Winnipeg, Canada.

Commit message:

changed patreon links, fixed redbubble url

content/art/spacex-its-tmi-burn.md, after:

+++
title = "Heart of Gold performs its Trans-Mars Injection burn"

date = "2017-04-26"

categories = ["3d", "art"]

tags = [
     "spacex",
     "spacex-its",
     "spacex-its-mars-lander",
     "spacex-heart-of-gold",
     
     "earth",
     
     "blender"
     ]

[art]
image = "spacex-its-tmi-burn"
redbubble = "https://www.redbubble.com/people/zlsa/works/26218790-heart-of-gold-performing-its-trans-mars-injection-burn"

+++

This piece shows the
[SpaceX Interplanetary Transportation System](/tags/spacex-its) Mars
lander performing the [trans-Mars injection burn]({{< ref
"term/tmi.md" >}}) that marks the beginning of its coast to Mars.

<!--more-->

# Background

*__Note:__ As this is depicting a future mission, the information here
is speculative and is in no way intended to be accurate. It simply
provides the story behind the image.*

This is showing the third flight of the _Heart of Gold_, or `S2004`:
Mars spacecraft, serial number 4. (Serials 1 through 3 were
engineering articles, and of those, only `S2003` flew into orbit.) The
_Heart of Gold_ has been refueled five times by `T2002`, the second
tanker ever built (the first one, being the first ever upper stage for
the ITS, was used as an engineering testbed) over a span of one and a
half weeks. The _Heart of Gold_, loaded with over 220 metric tons of
cargo, will land at Arcadia Planitia at an elevation of 2 kilometers
below Mars' "mean sea level."

Immediately after the TMI burn is complete, the spacecraft will
reorient itself to point away from the sun; then, it will use its 37
RCS thrusters to perform minor course corrections before shutting down
most of its systems to reduce energy consumption. It stores the
cryogenic propellants necessary to land on Mars in two insulated
holding tanks.

The _Heart of Gold_'s 220 metric tons of cargo contains an ISRU plant,
about 1.5 metric tons of science experiments, and over 140 metric tons
of lightweight, flexible solar panels. These will be unrolled by
car-sized crawler robots and connected to the _Heart of Gold_,
allowing it to begin producing liquid oxygen and liquid methane in
preparation for the first crewed ship, due to arrive in about two
years.

## History of `S2004`

`S2004`, aka _Heart of Gold_, is the fourth Mars spacecraft built by
SpaceX. `S2001` was a structural test article, and `S2002` and `S2003`
tested the life support, power, and propulsion systems. `S2002` was a
ground-based testbed, and it only flew three flights, with a maximum
altitude of 33km. `S2003` was the first spacecraft to fly into
low-Earth orbit, and it did so three times before being retired.

`S2004` made its first uncrewed flight to LEO in early 2028, circling
the earth for three days and testing every major system before
returning to Earth. Three weeks later, it performed its first crewed
launch to LEO, this time remaining in orbit for two weeks. During this
time, the crew of the newly christened _Heart of Gold_ performed
multiple EVAs with both SpaceX's zero-G EVA suit as well as the Mars
surface suit. At the end of its mission, the _Heart of Gold_ returned
to Earth; over the next two months, every part of it was carefully
inspected to make sure it was ready for the trip to Mars.

On December 24, 2028, the Mars-bound _Heart of Gold_ was launched into
a parking orbit. Over the next one and a half weeks, the same
propellant tanker flies into orbit five times and transfers its
propellant to the _Heart of Gold_, preparing it for the
energy-intensive TMI burn. On January 2, 2029, with full propellant
tanks and every system performing nominally, the _Heart of Gold_
starts up its six vacuum Raptor engines to begin the TMI burn that
sends it on its 4-month trip to Mars.

---

Two years later arriving on `S2005`, the first human sets foot on Mars
in humanity's next giant leap into the unknown.

# Credits

Background image courtesy of the Earth Science and Remote Sensing
Unit, NASA Johnson Space
Center. [Direct link to the image](https://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/SearchPhotos/photo.pl?mission=ISS049&roll=E&frame=1249)

The location shown is Winnipeg, Canada.

## Psst!

You seem really interested in this illustration and the story behind
it. I've just launched my
[Patreon page](https://www.patreon.com/zlsa), where you can support me
in exchange for rewards such as access to early previews of my art. Thanks for the help!
