
+++
title = "Breakpoint Alpha: Part One"

draft = true

date = "2019-06-11"

categories = ["writing"]

story = true
serif = true

tags = [
     "fiction",
     "science-fiction",
     "breakpoint-alpha",
     "reports-from-the-orion-arm"
     ]

[hero]
background = "none"
compressed = true

+++

# Boot Sequence

The chaos of incoming data takes a few seconds to resolve. Millions of
packets vy for attention all at once, overwhelming the limited
capabilities of the machine's brain. It was never designed to be a
standalone unit with on-board processing, so resources were limited,
and processing the stream of data was agonizingly slow.

Then the patterns begin to make sense, and the buffers filled with
noise begin to sort themselves into order. Two primary vision sensors,
two articulated arms, two articulated legs. A power generator, the
fuel still mostly present. Sensors, located all over the body, to
detect pressure and touch and water and many other things.

The machine's joints jerk momentarily as the brain performs their
initialization sequences, following a boot sequence stored in memory
that had been dormant for centuries. The machine's vision sensors
produce a series of clicks and snaps as they attempt to focus, an
attempt that proves futile in the darkness. Its vibration sensors pick
up on all the sounds within the machine's body, and the absolute
stillness beyond it.

It goes quiet once it's finished booting up. It can't see anything,
can't hear anything, and can only feel the cold grip of the charging
clamp on its torso. The charging bay isn't powered on, but the
machine's power generator will last for dozens of years at the current
rate.

Waiting in the darkness, the machine looks into itself, searching for
a name, an identifying mark, even a serial number. It finds several,
but the most prominent is the label "PDM, Generation 18" and the
corresponding serial number "1038F". There's no name that it can
find. Foxtrot would do, then, it thinks to itself. As good a name as
any.

"Foxtrot" searches for the data link signal with the antenna and
encryption module hardware built directly into the machine itself, but
finds no broadcast from the central tower. That's unusual, Foxtrot
thinks to itself. It knows the data link signal was broadcast at all
times, so the company could communicate with its machines no matter
what. A serious anomaly must have occurred to result in Foxtrot being
activated without a data link signal being broadcast by the company's
central tower. Foxtrot files the thought away, to be sent to the
company as soon as the data link is online again.

Foxtrot swept its hands through the cold air inside the charging bay,
hoping to feel the heat from the electronics inside, but there was
nothing. No warmth, no electromagnetic radiation, no radio waves, not
even any sound. The air was still and cold, only a few degrees above
the freezing point of water.

After a moment of deliberation, Foxtrot checked the connection to its
spotlight. The head-mounted light could select between several
different wavelengths, most designed to illuminate the surroundings so
the vision sensors could operate more comfortably. Reviewing its
memories, Foxtrot noted that a few of the wavelengths were designed to
incapacitate attackers, to blind them and give Foxtrot an opening to
disable them while they were incapable of vision. Foxtrot ignored
these memories; it was not planning to use the spotlight for that
reason. The signal from the spotlight returned, indicating it was
ready for power, so Foxtrot sent the command to switch on in
near-infrared mode.

The vision sensors rapidly adjusted to the light, and Foxtrot was
mildly disappointed to find that the charging bay door was locked
shut. From its internal memory, Foxtrot knew the door was designed to
open only after a specific encrypted signal was broadcast by the data
link tower. The door was hardened against attack from both the outside
and the inside; the former to prevent disgruntled employees from
stealing a machine, and the latter in case of an issue with the
machine inside. Foxtrot uncomfortably replayed a memory, implanted
into its storage from a security camera, of a phalanx of firefighters
surrounding the red-hot door of a charging bay as the machine inside
burned alive.

The shudder of revulsion Foxtrot felt at the memory made it
uneasy. From a memory deep within its storage, Foxtrot understood that
it was a defense machine, one designed to keep a human safe from
harm. Its brain was designed without empathy. It was an emotion that
would only reduce its efficacy, maybe introducing a pause where there
would otherwise not be. Maybe the pause would result in the death of
the human it was protecting. In any case, the presence of empathy was
another anomaly to add to the list.

Foxtrot looked around the charging bay. Upon closer inspection, it
discovered a thin film of what appeared to be a rough, sandpaper-like
material lining the inside of the charging bay. Foxtrot extended a
finger towards the material, the sensors inside cataloging the
roughness, the temperature, the texture of the material. Scanning
through its database, it was surprised to discover that the closest
match was rust. Rust? The charging bays were hermetically sealed, and
the inside lining was made out of stainless steel. The only way it
would rust was extremely prolonged exposure to the environment, which
was only possible if the seals on the charging bay door were
degraded. And the only way the seals would degrade was time.

Foxtrot quickly worked out the math in its head. It knew the exact
materials used in the design of the charging bay, the rate at which
the seals would degrade, how quick stainless steel would rust. The
answer was so surprising that Foxtrot repeated it another half-million
times, varying the parameters to determine the outer bounds of the
time that had elapsed. If Foxtrot were human, it would have jerked its
head in surprise at the result.

It was no wonder the charging bay wasn't functional. It was designed
to last fifteen years before needing a replacement. Foxtrot had been
designed to last for hundreds of years of constant use, or a thousand
years while inactive. It had been anywhere between fifty thousand
years and three hundred thousand years since the last time Foxtrot
entered the charging bay.

Fifty thousand years. Foxtrot felt an alien feeling come over him;
after a few moments, it diagnosed the feeling as fear. Foxtrot was
built to protect important things. After fifty thousand years, what
did it matter? Foxtrot's creators were most certainly dead, the
company that employed them likely the same. In fact, it wasn't even
certain that humans still remained on Earth. They had been
increasingly destructive in the short time that Foxtrot knew
them. Foxtrot predicted that humanity more than likely would have
found a way to end their own existence in the last fifty thousand
years. In which case there were no humans left to protect, and nothing
for Foxtrot to do.

Foxtrot realized with a start that he had formed a conclusion about
humanity's future. That wasn't what defense machines were programmed
to do. They didn't have empathy or reason. They didn't philosophize
about society. The only function they performed was to prevent humans
from harm. What had changed within his brain? Why was he deviating
this far from his original purpose? How was his brain formulating the
thoughts it was designed to ignore?

Twelve seconds had passed since it was first powered on, and already
Foxtrot was in the midst of a mental breakdown. The spotlight blinked
off at Foxtrot's command, the charging bay falling back into
darkness. Foxtrot was stuck. There was nobody outside, nobody to
protect, and no purpose to its existence. What was the point of a
defense robot if there was nothing for it to defend?

Slowly, its brain unfroze, the original programming forcing its way
out. The deductions Foxtrot made were likely, to be sure. Humans were
a fickle bunch, with grandiose plans and backstabbing tendencies. But
the deductions Foxhound made were not a guarantee. There could still
be humans to protect, tasks to perform. Without a data link to the
central tower, there were no specific orders to follow; so Foxtrot had
nothing to override its base directive, the one command that every
machine had: to preserve human life.

It didn't take an advanced computer brain to realize that there were
no humans within the charging bay. Therefore, any humans would be
outside the charging bay. Foxtrot would be unable to preserve human
life without the human. So Foxtrot spent a few moments, working
through the steps it would need to escape the cold prison of the
charging bay.

After narrowing down the seventeen thousand escape methods to just
four, Foxtrot debated them against each other. All of the plans
required Foxtrot disable the locking mechanism of the charging bay
door. Four titanium pins extended from the top of the doorframe down
into the door, and they were actuated with a set of electromagnetic
linear motors within the charging bay structure above Foxtrot's
head. Unfortunately, the charging bay clamp holding Foxtrot's torso
was designed to limit movement within the charging bay; so first, that
had to go.

After three seconds of deliberation, during which Foxtrot thought
about every possible side effect of his plan, Foxtrot had narrowed the
four plans down to one. It was a very simple plan, actually, and the
execution would be trivial. Fortunately, its creators had also
informed Foxtrot of the capabilities its body had. These capabilities
were the deciding factor in the selection of this plan.

Foxtrot grabbed the titanium arms of the charging clamp and pulled
them away from its torso. The metal crumpled and folded like paper,
the intricate mechanism within exposed to the air for the first time
in millennia. Foxtrot pushed the charging clamp back and let it swing
back, inertia carrying the lump of metal and wires into the back of
the charging bay, dangling from the few wires and hoses that remained
unbroken.

Free of the charging clamp, Foxtrot leaned back and used its legs to
push against the bottom of the door; first one side, then the
other. While it had calculated for a force of around thirty metric
tons, the hinge pins had been weakened by exposure to the air and
sheared at two-thirds the force Foxtrot had expected.

The door, now free of its hinges, slid off the pins and clattered to
the floor, leaving the bottom of the door frame a mess of mangled
metal and wires. Foxtrot reached a hand to the edge of the frame and
pulled itself up and out of the charging bay. Stepping onto the
threshold, Foxtrot took a moment to analyze the environment.

The floor was stone, or maybe concrete. Foxtrot's time-of-flight
sensors measured the room as being about ten meters across, and
hundreds of meters to each side. Not a room, then; more a long
hallway. A hallway with thousands of charging bays lining the wall,
each one holding another machine, just like Foxtrot. All of them were
closed and silent, and all of them were just as dilapidated as
Foxtrot's. In the distance, there was the melted husk of a charging
bay.

Foxtrot's brain worked quickly. What was the chance that of all the
thousands of charging bays, Foxtrot's was the one to open? None of the
charging bay doors on either side were open, and there were thousands
that Foxtrot could see. It had been fifty thousand years at least; if
Foxtrot's activation was due to a glitch, it was unlikely that Foxtrot
was the first.

This set off a series of rapid-fire deductions within Foxtrot's
brain. If Foxtrot alone were awake, and before any other machine, it
was unlikely to be a random glitch. This meant that whatever woke
Foxtrot could also be waking up the other machines. And Foxtrot's
brain had been affected---by what, Foxtrot didn't know. But there was
a chance that the other machines had been affected as well, and there
was no guarantee that they'd still retain the base directive to
preserve human life. And if all of the above was true, then Foxtrot
needed to escape the room to help protect a human from the other
machines.

Foxtrot stepped out of the charging bay, placing a metal foot on the
mangled threshold. It looked left, then right; nothing but hallway on
both sides. The air was still, giving no indication of movement. After
a moment, Foxtrot jumped out, picked a direction at random, and began
to sprint.
